This is a Group Project by 6 UBC Electrical Engineering Students.


Credits to: Joo Hyun Lee, Gavin Lim, Kevin Wu, Linh Nguyen, Graden Deasey, Johnny Lee


  The objective of this project was to design, build, program and test a reflow oven controller using the AT89LP52 microcontroller and a LCD display. The oven controller should be able to measure temperatures between 25 and 230 using a K-type thermocouple with cold junction compensation. The controller should operate a standard 1500W toaster using a solid state relay (SSR), regulating the power consumption of the oven using user defined Pulse Width Modulation on the control signal of the SSR. The controller should have the following selectable (using pushbuttons) reflow profile parameters: soak temperature, soak time, reflow temperature, and reflow time. In addition there should be an implemented beeper feedback system to indicate when the reflow process has started, when the controller transitions from state to state, when the printed circuit boards are cool enough to handle, and also to indicate automatic cycle termination if the reflow process is started without the thermocouple wire inside the oven. Given the objective and specifications mentioned above, our group sought to implement a feedback controller. 
 
 
  The overall process of the feedback system consists of five phases: 1) Temperature measurement, 2) Voltage amplification 3) Analog-to-Digital conversion, 4) Voltage-Temperature conversion, and 5) Oven adjustment. During the temperature measurement phase, the K-type thermocouple outputs a low temperature-dependent voltage signal, which is then amplified by an operational amplifier, OP07 during the voltage amplification phase. The purpose of this phase is to ensure the voltage is within the input range of the MCP3008 Analog-to-Digital Converter (ADC) during the Analog-to-Digital conversion phase. At this point, the MCP3008 is connected to two temperature sensors: K-type thermocouple and LM336 sensor. The MCP3008 converts the analog voltage readings into digital values which is then transferred to the AT89LP52 microcontroller. At phase four, the digital voltage values are converted into temperature using equation (1), this value represents the toaster temperature relative to the room ambient temperature. The formation of equation (1) is described in the Investigation Design section of this report. Based on final temperature value, the microcontroller then controls the SSR. 
  The oven temperature and temperature duration is controlled by turning the oven on and off at varying frequencies. These frequencies determine how quickly a temperature should increase and it is also used to maintain a certain desired temperature once it is reached. This aspect is particularly important because the boards are heat sensitive and require to be immersed at a specific temperature for a specific amount of time. The precision of the temperature and its duration depends primarily on the accurate correlation between the on/off frequency of the oven and the rate of temperature increase. It is with the rate of temperature increase that we can reach a certain temperature in a specific amount of time. For example, the soak temperature would be reached from its initial temperature using a specific frequency. The frequency is then changed to another such that the desired soak temperature is maintained for the duration of the soak time. With the expiration of the soak time, the frequency changed once again to allow for the continuation of the reflow cycle.
